.TH mod\-host
.SH About
.PP
mod\-host is a LV2 host for JACK, controllable via socket or command line
.PP
Currently the host supports the following LV2 features:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
lv2core
.IP \(bu 2
atom
.IP \(bu 2
event
.IP \(bu 2
buf\-size
.IP \(bu 2
midi
.IP \(bu 2
options
.IP \(bu 2
uri\-map
.IP \(bu 2
urid
.IP \(bu 2
worker
.IP \(bu 2
presets
.RE
.PP
mod\-host is part of the MOD project
\[la]http://moddevices.com\[ra]\&.
.SH Building
.PP
mod\-host uses a simple Makefile to build the source code.
The steps to build and install are:
.PP
.RS
.nf
make
make install
.fi
.RE
.PP
You can change the base installation path passing PREFIX as argument of make.
.PP
Dependencies:
.PP
.RS
.nf
libjack\-jackd2  >= 1.9.8
liblilv         >= 0.14.2
libreadline     >= 6.2
lilv\-utils      (optional)
.fi
.RE
.SH Running
.PP
mod\-host does not startup JACK automatically, so you need to start it before
running mod\-host.
.PP
If you run mod\-host without options the process will be forked and it can only
be controlled through the socket.
The default socket port is 5555, this can be changed by passing the option
\-p (or \-\-socket\-port) to mod\-host.
.PP
The other way to control mod\-host is the interactive mode, in this case the
commands must be provided on the shell prompt.
The interactive mode has autocomplete, therefore, you can always type \fB\fC[TAB]\fR
twice any time you want a hint.
.PP
Note: When you are in the interactive mode, socket communication won't work.
.SH Options
.PP
.RS
.nf
\-v, \-\-verbose
    verbose messages
\-p, \-\-socket\-port=<port>
    socket port definition
\-i, \-\-interactive
    interactive shell mode
\-V, \-\-version
    print program version and exit
\-h, \-\-help
    print help and exit
.fi
.RE
.SH Commands (or Protocol)
.PP
The commands supported by mod\-host are:
.PP
.RS
.nf
add <lv2_uri> <instance_number>
    * add a LV2 plugin encapsulated as a jack client
    e.g.: add http://lv2plug.in/plugins/eg\-amp 0
    instance_number must be any value between 0 ~ 9999, inclusively
remove <instance_number>
    * remove a LV2 plugin instance (and also the jack client)
    e.g.: remove 0
connect <origin_port> <destination_port>
    * connect two effect audio ports
    e.g.: connect system:capture_1 effect_0:in
disconnect <origin_port> <destination_port>
    * disconnect two effect audio ports
    e.g.: disconnect system:capture_1 effect_0:in
preset_load <instance_number> <preset_uri>
    * load a preset state to given effect instance
    e.g.: preset_load 0 "http://drobilla.net/plugins/mda/presets#JX10\-moogcury\-lite"
preset_save <instance_number> <preset_name> <dir> <file_name>
    * save a preset state from given effect instance
    e.g.: preset_save 0 "My Preset" /home/user/.lv2/my\-presets.lv2 mypreset.ttl
preset_show <instance_number> <preset_uri>
    * show the preset information of requested instance / URI
    e.g.: preset_show 0 http://drobilla.net/plugins/mda/presets#EPiano\-bright
param_set <instance_number> <param_symbol> <param_value>
    * set a value to given control
    e.g.: param_set 0 gain 2.50
param_get <instance_number> <param_symbol>
    * get the value of the request control
    e.g.: param_get 0 gain
param_monitor <instance_number> <param_symbol> <cond_op> <value>
    * do monitoring a effect instance control port according given condition
    e.g: param_monitor 0 gain > 2.50
monitor <addr> <port> <status>
    * open a socket port to monitoring parameters
    e.g: monitor localhost 12345 1
    if status = 1 start monitoring
    if status = 0 stop monitoring
bypass <instance_number> <bypass_value>
    * toggle effect processing
    e.g.: bypass 0 1
    if bypass_value = 1 bypass effect
    if bypass_value = 0 process effect
load <file_name>
    * load a history command file
    * dummy way to save/load workspace state
    e.g.: load my_setup
save <file_name>
    * saves the history of typed commands
    * dummy way to save/load workspace state
    e.g.: save my_setup
help
    * show a help message
quit
    bye!
.fi
.RE
.PP
For each effect added one client on JACK will be created. The names of clients
follow the standard: effect\fI<instance\fPnumber>
.PP
If a valid command is executed a response is given as following:
.PP
.RS
.nf
resp <status> [value]
.fi
.RE
.PP
If status is a negative number an error has occurred. The table below shows the number of each error.
.TS
allbox;
cb cb
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
.
status	error
\-1	ERR_INSTANCE_INVALID
\-2	ERR_INSTANCE_ALREADY_EXISTS
\-3	ERR_INSTANCE_NON_EXISTS
\-101	ERR_LV2_INVALID_URI
\-102	ERR_LV2_INSTANTIATION
\-103	ERR_LV2_INVALID_PARAM_SYMBOL
\-104	ERR_LV2_INVALID_PRESET_URI
\-105	ERR_LV2_CANT_LOAD_STATE
\-201	ERR_JACK_CLIENT_CREATION
\-202	ERR_JACK_CLIENT_ACTIVATION
\-203	ERR_JACK_CLIENT_DEACTIVATION
\-204	ERR_JACK_PORT_REGISTER
\-205	ERR_JACK_PORT_CONNECTION
\-206	ERR_JACK_PORT_DISCONNECTION
\-301	ERR_MEMORY_ALLOCATION
.TE
.PP
A status zero or positive means that the command was executed successfully.
In case of the add command, the status returned is the instance number.
The value field currently only exists for the param_get command.
